# Empirical Cumulative Distribution Function of Returns (in R)
Equity Returns

This repository contains the code that I have written in order to visualize the historical probabilities of having a return
equal/lower than or equal/great than a specific value, for a given Equity Index.

The HTML file contains an easy-to-read version of the actual code, written in R. Full code is available on request.

There are also two charts provided as examples. The data for the chart is available in the test_data.xlsx file. Data has been
randomly generated by provding averange and standard deviation to a normal distribution function.

**** HOW TO READ THE CHART ****

## MAIN CHART
For returns (x-axis) below 0, the y-axis value corresponds to the probabilities - based on historical data - to observe
a return equal or lower than that value.
For returns (x-axis) greater than/equal to 0, the y-axis corresponds to the probabilities - based on historical data - to
observe a return equal or greater than that value.

The red line highlight the focus month, i.e. if we are looking at 1-month return, and the current month is September, the
focus month would be October. If we are looking at 2-month return, on the contrary, the focus month will be November.
The grey lines represent ECDF for all other months.

There are three main things to look at when analysing the main chart.
First of all, the position of the red line for 0 return (i.e. returns greater than/equal to 0, positive returns). Ideally,
you would like to have a red line which is as high as possible at value 0, i.e. higher probabilities of positive returns.
Secondly, and similarly, you would like to have a high red-line for all positive returns.
Thirdly, and contrarily, you would like to have a low red-line for all negative returns, i.e. minimising the probabilities
of negative returns.


## BOXPLOT
The boxplot chart offers a quick comparison of the distributions of the return analysed (e.g. 1-month return) for all the
months (from January to December), historically.
